SublimeUrtext Documentation <Thu., Feb. 07, 2019, 06:02 PM>
Urtext TODOs -> 79811013080449.txt | 

What this is : This is an implementation of Urtext in Sublime Text. I call it SublimeUrtext. Urtext is a system for writing and using information in plain text files. Sublime is a modern, programmable text editor. This is Urtext inside of Sublime.

How to set it up : 
----------------

	- You'll need an empty Sublime Project. Create one by opening a new empty folder (File -> Open) and then save it as a project, Project -> Save Project As ...

	- You are prompted to save a file with a .sublime-project extension. Name it anything, save it anywhere you like. For simplicity, you could save it inside the empty folder you just created.

	- Open up the .sublime-project file you just saved in Sublime and edit it. Add one line inside the outermost squiggly brackets:
		
		"urtext_path" : "<path to your new project folder>",

	Your .sublime-project file might look like this:

			{
			    "folders":
			    [
			        {
			            "path": "/Users/YourName/Documents/new project",
			        },
			    ],
			    "urtext_path" : "/Users/YourName/Documents/new_project",
			    "settings":
			    {
			        "tab_size": 2
			    },
			    
			}

	The "urtext_path" value is the folder where the Urtext plugin will look for all your Urtext files, no matter your current working directory. This is necessary because Sublime Text frequently changes the working directory for various reasons without explicitly letting you know. Because Urtext only works in one folder, this ensures everything is saved and retrieved from that folder path, nowhere else.

	- Whenever you want to use your project, just select Project -> Quick Switch Project (Ctrl-Cmd-P), select your Urtext project, and you'll be using the project.


Getting Started:
---------------

	Content is kept in nodes. A node is a file but we call it a node because of how it's used. Think of a node as a piece of paper. Nodes can be any length. Create a new node: Press Control-Shift-; (Control-Shift-semicolon). You don't have to make a filename, Urtext does that. (One of the Urtext principles is not to rely on the file system dialogs.)

	Every new node includes some whitespace on top and a metadata block at the bottom. Default metadata includes the creation date and the file system filename. The cursor is placed at the top. Writing anything. Save it with command-S. Create another file the same way. Write something in it. Save it.

	Now you have multiple nodes. To browse your nodes, press Command-E (Mac) or select Urtext: Show Nodes from the Sublime command palette (shift-command-P. Nodes are displayed by their title and datestamp. Search for a node by typing part of its title. Open a node by selecting it and pressing enter.

	Where does the title come from? As you would when writing on paper, write the name or title directly into the node. By default, the Urtext Node browser reads your non-whitespace line as the node title. When you edit the lines, the title changes automatically. If for some reason you want to override that and assign a title manually, add a line to the metadata block:

			title: < Title Of Your Node >

	Another way to view all your nodes is timelime view. Press Ctrl-Shift-T or select Urtext: Show Timeline in the Sublime command palette. This shows all your nodes in a timeline, starting with the most recent. To open an node from the timeline, place the cursor anywhere on the line containing the link and press Ctrl-U. 

	Ctrl-U works to open a link anywhere in an Urtext project. The syntax for making a link is:

		<any text> -> <link to anything> | <any other text>

	Any text between the arrow (->) and the pipe (|) is read as a link. Filepaths are always relative to the Urtext project directory. 

	You can quickly write a link from one node to another node by selecting Urtext: Link to ... and selecting a file in the Sublime Command palette. HTTP (internet) URLs are recognized and open in the default browser, such as -> www.google.com  | You can link to assets (img, pdf, etc.) within the Urtext project using the native folder separators for your operating system. 

	[ FUTURE: Using these features together, you can build virtual file trees called nodegroups. Nodegroups simulate folder structure, however many folder-like views can be imposed on the same nodes. This requires directed acyclic graphs -> https://wiki.gnome.org/action/show/Projects/liblarch?action=show&redirect=liblarch |

	[ FUTURE: When nodes are interlinked, you can get an overview of the linked group 
	-- also permit browsing of the virtual structure in the Sublime command palette ]


	
Reserved Symbols and Syntax


Ideas Behind Urtext :

		Urtext is a system and a syntax, not an implementation. The syntax is a loose format for writing files in plaintext that can be read by any platform and fil 

		Urtext could be implemented using any another text editor with built-in or supplemental scripting/automation, a web application, or pencil and paper along with human sorting and organizing routines. To keep things simple, one of the design principles is that each feature should have a pencil and paper analogue.

		Requirements:
		-------------

		Allow freeform text, not adapt text to an existing system.
		Be undistracted by manually naming, saving, and renaming of files.
		Must permit customizable metadata.
		At least some mobile accessibility: Content may be read, created, and at least partially organized from mobile.
		Plain text
		Be capable of hyperlinks, both within and without the files. Files should be able to connect to one another.
		Version control
		Syntax highlighting
		Fuzzy search


		Principles:
		-----------

		Allow both organized and disorganized use.
		Must be backward compatible with older systems

		Use of file system:
			Never have to interact directly with a file system dialog from within the Urtext project.
			Every node in a single folder, subfolders organization scheme.
			Files of other types are in subfolders labeled by type: /img, /pdf, etc.

		Every feature has a pencil and paper analogue.
		Looesly structured but flexible format that can be transferred among platforms, devices and applications. 
		Content remains in plain text. No reliance on proprietary applications, formats, platforms.
		Extensible, customizable.
		A system, not an implementation.
		Allows for metadata without using the filesystem.





Node files have 14-digit names with .txt extension. The 14 digits are an inverse representation of the year, month, day, hour, minute and second they were created. We don't use the file-created or -modified date metadata because that can be too easily modified under ordinary file system operations such as copying and moving files or folders. Creation date is inverted in filenames to force files sorting with the most recent node first. It's useful in mobile applications that commonly have very limited or fussy file system sorting and viewing capabilities. 

Timestamps: Within node text, Urtext utilizes human-readable Timestamps in the format: <Thu., Feb. 07, 2019, 05:57 PM>. In Sublime, insert one anywhere by pressing Command-T. Timestamps can be written inline or as elements of metadata (see below). Urtext parses timestamps throughout the project for many uses.


Metadata: At the bottom of every file is a separator of twelve consecutive dashes starting and ending a single line. This signals that everything below it is metadata. Metadata is written in tags of a single line each in the formnat format:
	
		<tag name> : <optional tag value> <optional tag timestamp> 

The uses for these are left entirely open-ended. 

	Reserved words in metadata:

			There are only a few reserved words.



[ FUTURE : Numerical ordering of the file view on mobile may be a way to order the file views by priority or to show a virtual file tree within a single folder. ]








------------
Created <Thu., Feb. 07, 2019, 03:14 PM>
Original filename: 79811024084551.txt
tags: urtext
title: Urtext Documentation